I think, of course, I did not really start it about Zen or do it too much, but the Zen
meditation is definitely very similar with Dzogchen meditations, because it's a similar
way, I'm talking about the same as the emptiness. Emptiness meditation is very similar, because
the Zen meditation is immediately pointing out, such as emptiness mind or no mind, so
going to direct to the emptiness aspect of the mind. In that way, true teaching, true
teaching and then teaching, and as well as Mahamudra teaching, I think it's close, very
close, I think it's teaching, I don't see any big difference there, that is my understanding.
So true teaching and then teaching, so maybe it's similar, similar, so that is my, an aligned
or my understanding. Then, what would the difference be in terms of, because Zen is usually like
bodhisattva yana, and then the bodhisattva yana, and then Dzogchen is like ati-yoga yana,
so what's the difference in terms of the practice of it? And the difference a bit of the techniques
and the way they started this practice at Zen, again I don't really know too much about
the Zen, started that, but Zen is more purpose, kind of my understanding, of course you can
correct me, you all can correct me, but my understanding is more purpose on the emptiness
aspect, emptiness, emptiness, and that such is like the poem is the emptiness, sound is the
emptiness,
A is the emptiness, every aggregate is the emptiness, which is, I mean the Buddha teaching,
which is true, true, I mean it's very direct, Mahayan teachings, so it's more purpose on the
emptiness aspect of that, and according also my understanding, maybe Zen is not purely in the
Buddha's teaching, they've always told, according to very Buddhist, they've always told, skill
means aspect of teaching, and the wisdom aspect of teaching, so Zen is more purpose on the wisdom
aspect of teaching, more wisdom aspect of teaching, so it is the emptiness, emptiness teaching,
there's
no ego, no I, I mean all that, it's kind of more focus on that, and it's very Buddhism, and Zouki
teaching is also, that is the purpose too, but at the same time, focus on the skill means aspect
of teaching, which is, if I say what is that, and it is like compassion, companion aspect of the
teaching practices, because in Zouki teaching, Zouki teaching said, have you practiced only on the
emptiness aspect, which is true that, but you're in a little bit neglecting that, the skill aspect
of nature of the mind, or nature, the art nature of the mind, skill means aspect of nature of mind
is compassion, flowing kindness, have you neglected that, that then, I mean it's just you focus on,
but you focus, kind of neglected others, and then it's not full, kind of like as Zouki teaching,
that is not complete practices, so therefore, the skill aspect of the teaching is more focus,
according with that, then in Zouki, or to be the general Buddhism, and the Shattarakha pose,
Shattarakha teaching, then this is called two accumulation practice, that which is really
emphasize that accumulation, so wisdom and merit, accumulation merit, wisdom merit is then med
itating
on the emptiness, that is the wisdom, but this, the accumulation merit is then practicing on the
all the six, among six parameters is practicing on the generosity, moralities, and concentrations,
and patience in your effort, and all that is the moral, the accumulation merit, so this two merit
is so important, and that is like the Shattarakha pose, and that is an original pose, and that is
also
in the Buddha teaching, if you don't have the both, two, two accumulations, and then you cannot fly
to direct the sky or make the enlightenment, because you're missing this accumulation merit,
which is you're missing one, in order to fly perfectly in the sky, you need two wings,
and you're missing one big wing, that won't happen, and therefore, that is the great Master
Jandar Kirti also said in his teaching, there's need two wings to reach or to glide, or to the
state of the dharmakaya, so those are the, I think it's a little different, in the zouki teaching,
that is again, in the two level, that is then similar, but then it's not just only that zouki
focus, the only that in the focus, also in skillful aspect of the aspect, and which is also clarity
aspect of the nature of the mind, so then keep bring up more, and that, a colon teaching,
that makes them very perfect, full, full discovery, full quality of the nature of the mind.
thank you okay yeah